---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E1: UI Basics Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-01-29
published: true
labels:
  - MIS
---


As you would expect, my first attempts at a WOD were rather rough. It was extremely challenging because of the fact that coding is very, very new for me and that I am still understanding and learning to apply concepts as we speak. The premise of these WODs is to help us learn and apply skills while gaining efficiency in building codes for webpages and their designs. Browser History 1-3 were our first attempts at WODs. 

The first WOD we had, Browser History 1, was the most challenging. It was a new method of learning we were learning to apply, while also applying new knowledge to something. The "DNF" time was anything over 25 minutes long, while the "Rx" tiime was anything that took less than 15 minutes to complete. Naturally, I did not finish the first few times as I was still getting stumped and had to think what the next step was telling me to apply. This WOD was the longest and most time consuming as the cumulative time it took was way over 4 hours. I DNF'd 4/6 times I attempted it, rewatched the video 5 times to see what was wrong with my code and then on the fifth attempt, I finally finished it. After I got it done for the first time with about 16 minutes and change, I reattempted it and finished in less than 11 minutes, which got me my Rx status.

WOD two was Browser History 2. This had mostly focused on CSS styles which helped to alter and change the fonts and layout of the sheet which allows us to make them more visually appealing to the naked eye. This WOD was the shortest in terms of attempts as time all around. The DNF was anything over 20 minutes while the Rx time to beat was anything less than 10. After my first few attempts I found myself getting stuck on the headings and non-headings part as I forgot you needed to different styles to apply them, as they are different from one another. After my fourth and final attempt, I achieved the Rx status with a time of about 6 minutes. I feel that this one was challenging as I did not, and still do not fully understand the full concept of CSS style sheets.

WOD three was the last and final one we had to do. Browser History 3. This surprisingly was not the easiest one to do as it took me five full attempts after I got stuck doing the navbar section. This was rather simple as you just coded for the columns to be the same width and to have them be aligned with one another. The tricky part was using navbar as this step tripped me up A LOT. I kept on forgetting to anchor them and put them all in tags, or just forgot to use navbar altogether sometimes. After my fifth attempt, I finished it in about 5.5 minutes. 

If you get stuck and know you cannot figure it out, I would scrap the entire thing and restart fresh after watching the video to what you needed. This would save so much time and you would not have to get as frustrated. However, if you do get frustrated with the WOD, just take a little to sit back and relax, then go back and reattempt when you are cooled down. I do feel re-reading and comprehending the actual readings to help a large bit as I had to keep referring to them because I did not get them the first time and chose to not go back to try and understand them.  I do still believe I need work and practice to become more effcient as I needed to run through. the practice and the videos a number of times to get the Rx status.




